THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE. WEDNESDAY. JUNE 28. 1905.

THE MOROCCO QUESTION
GERMANY'S REPLY.
COUCHED IN FRIENDLY TONE
Paris, June 27
Prince Radohm presented Germany's reply
to the French note of the 22nd inst. It is
understood that it insists upon the necessity
a Congress and considers a previous discus
sion as to its scope unnecessary, but the gene
ral tenour is so amicable that it appears to
facilitate the granting of the purely formal
consessions to which Germany appears
attach value. It makes it difficult for France
to refuse a Conference, especially as her excep-
tional position on the Moroccan frontier is
fully acknowledged.
The prohibition of tho importation of muni-
tions, which has already placed the Sultans
force at Ujida in a most critical position, has
been withdrawn.	(Reuter.)

Paws, June i
M. Rouvier has received Germany’s reply
which persists in demanding a conference with-
out any previous understanding. The reply is
couched in a friendly spirit, which will facilitate
the granting by France of purely formal con-
cessions.	(Havas.)

LOCAL AND GENERAL.

The Brindisi Mail will be distributed at 
the G.P.O., Alexandria, at 9.30 p.m. to-day. !

The Moilki Saidna Hussein was celebrat
ed last night in the quarter of Cairo that bears
the name of the nephew of the Prophet

Prize Distribution —M. Buusquol, French
Consul at Cairo, will prosido over the dis
tribution of prizes to the pupils of the Ecole
Jeanne d’Arc Fagalla at 5pm this (Wednesday) afternoon.

TIIE TROUBLES IN WARSAW.
EXODUS OF JEWS.

Warsaw, June 27.
The soldiers have stormed and destroyed
six barricades. There are 10 wounded in other
conflicts with Cossack patrols.	(Reuter.)

Lodz, June 27.
The repetition of the massacre has been
pievented by an overwhelming military force
and heavy rain
20000 Jews have quitted the town (R.)

St. Petersburg, June 27.
A Ukase invests tho Governor General of
Warsaw with supremo military powers, which
General Trepoff is proceeding to Warsaw to
exercise on his behalf.
There have been 672 arrests, mostly Jews,
and the prisons are full.	(Reuter.)

FRENCH AMNESTY
Paris, June 27.
The French Government has introduced a
bill granting amnesty to M Deruulede and his
. exiles, and also covering offences relating to
strikes. the press, and the informing scandals
(Reuter.)


GERMAN SOUTH WEST AFRICA
OFFICIAL REPORT ON FIGHTING
Berlin, June 27.
The German official despatches show that
desperate fighting lasted 14 hours, but that
finally Marengo s position was captured They
deny the capture of Warmbad ( Neuter.)

Stray and Ownerless Dogs found between
the Pont des Anglais and the Ghizeh Mou-
dirieh during the nights of Thursday and
Friday and at dawn on Friday and Saturday,
will be poisoned by the police.

	Zeitoun.— We hear that the Ministry of
Public Works proposes to undertake the con-
struction of metalled roads at Zeitoun in the
autumn. The construction of a new railway
station will also be commenced.

A Jailbird.— Shamroukh Meloka, brother
of tho notorious Androus, has just been released
from prison, where he has passed 6 years. He
has been sent to the El Dorr Markas, where he
will remain under observation by the police.

DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES.
The prize distribution to the cadets of the
Military School, Cairo, took place at 8 o'olock
this in morning before a large gathering of officers.
Amongst those present we noticed Kaimakam
Herbert Bey, A.A.G., Kaimakam Anderson
Bey, Director of Stores, Bimbashi Carey, officer
commanding 16th Battalion, Miralai Zaky Bey,
A.A.G., Miralai Tewfik Bey, Kaimakam Sabri
Bey. D.A.A.G., the whole staff of the school,
, and a large number of junior officers.
Mr. Biyau, senior master, read his report on
the indoor work of the school, with the results
of the recent examinations, and this was follow-
ed by Mr. Plunkett's report on the outdoor
work, football, athletic sports, etc., after which
Miralai Matchett Bey distributed the prizes.
In making his address to the cadets Matchett
Beyy expressed his great regret that neither
the Minister of War nor H.B. the Sirdar were
able to attend, but this was made impossible
by the time of the year at which the distribu-
tion was held.
I The proceedings were then brought to a con-
clusion by tho cadets giving three times the
“Eftendimez Chok Yasha."
A fuller account of the ceremony, with a list
of the prizes and commissions, will be publish-
ed i. o n issue of tomorrow.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
Tho Legislative Council will meet to-morrow.
The Prosident will present Ibrahim Effendi
Abd-el-AL the new delegate of the Fayoum
province, to the members of the Council. The
Council will examine the question of forming
the Armenian Catholics of Egypt into a
'Community "

The Gardner Brown Bioscope and Va
riety Company have arrived at Alexandria
from Malta and will give three performances
at the Garrison Theatre, Mustupha, commenc-
ing tomorrow evening, before proceeding to
Cairo

Victoria House and Nurses Home.- Miss
Waeber, the matron, has gone to Europe on
three months' furlough, and her place will be
taken by Miss Harbord. The registry office will
be closed during Miss Waebers absence and
will be opened again on 1st October.

Suez Canal.— 19 vessels passed through
the Canal on the 24th and 25th inst, of which
10 were British, 5 German, 1 American, 1
Turkish, 1 Italian, 1 French. The receipts for
the two days were frs. 526,503, making the
total from the 1st inst. frs. 6.962,326.62.

Um Rush. The Committee of the London
Stock Exchange have fixed Wednesday, July
19, as a special settling day in Um Rus Gold
Mines of Egypt, Limited - Further issue of
30,000 shares of 1 each, 10s paid (Nos.
150,001 to 180,000)

SWEDEN AND NORWAY
NAVAL AND MILITARY MEASURES
Christiania. June 27.
Sweden is adopting certain naval and
military measures which are creating a dis
agreeable impression here, although it is ex-
plained that they are purely precautional. It
is generally believed that notwithstanding the
aggressive language of the Swedish Conserva
tives, the disunion will be peacefully arranged.
(Reuter.)

“Avon” Stabbing Cadr —The trial of John
Raghy, cook of the S.S. "Avon," on the charge
of stabbing the steward of the ship, J. E.
Garnham, under circumstances already related
in our columns, will take place at H.B.M. s
Consular Court, Alexandria, on Saturday.

The Plague. — Yesterday’ss bulletin records
a fatal case at Alexandria, the victim being a
native who worked in a cafe near Mohamed
Aly square, and who was found dead at his
house. Three new cases and two deaths are
reported trom Damanbour, and one case from
Toukh district.

The Pigmies seem to be in rather an awk
ward position. They have beheld many won
ders and miracles, says the "Express," but of
these they must remain silent when they
return home, or they will certainly be burned
to death as being possessed of devils. This
will be a blow to publishers in the Ituri Forest

HOME CRICKET
London, June 27.
Worcestershire beat Leicestershire by an
innings and 207 runs. M.C.C. beat Cambridge
University by 4 wickets.	(Reuter.)

The Cotton Worm.— The School of Agri
culture has placed the services of two of their
instructors, Mr. W. Cartwright and Mr. G
Bonaparte, at the disposal of the Ministry of
the Interior for cotton-worm duty, and these
two gentleman hare accordingly been posted
to the Mudiriehs of Ghizeh and Behera, res
pectively

AFal-kAlarm — Androns Meloka's exploits
appear to hav^. had their effect in putting
travellers by train very much on the ywi rive.

CONCESSION BY THE PORTE.
We learn from Constantinople that after
two years' efforts on the part of the British
Embassy, the Porte has finally agreed to grant
the same privilege — namely, exemption of
Customs duty on coal—to the ships of the
Khedivial Mail Company as that enjoyed by
the other foreign mail steamers. The Porte's
objection as regards the Khedivial Mail Com
pany has been that their vessels ply between
Ottoman ports, and, therefore, do not come
under the same category as the other foreign
companies, whose ports of origin are in foreign
countries As a matter of fact, however, tho
Turkish Government has never been able to
forgive the Khedivial Company for transferring
its ships to the British flag, hence all the
trouble over this and other facilities.

DREDGERS PROPOSED FOR WHITE
	NILE.
The Council of Ministers has approved the
proportion of the Ministry of Public Works
that Mr. Dapuis, Inspector General of Irriga
tion in the Sudan, should be sent on a mission
to the United States and Canada and, if pos
sible, should also visit Holland and Germany,
in order to examine on the spot the different
types of dredgers which are in use in those
countries, and which are of the most advanced
form and of great working capacity. Mr. Dupuis
will spend some two months in examining this
question, and will present his report on the
results of his inspection immediately after his
return to this country.
It is considered that these dredgers are
necessary tor ameliorating the condition of the
White Nile for the purpose of increasing the
supply of water in Egypt

PRICE OF LAND AT GHEZIREH
In reference to the great rise within the past
year or so in the price of land for building
purposes near Cairo, in localities that have of
late greatly appreciated in public estimation,
we may instance that in the neighbourhood of
Ghezireh Palace Hotel. No plots heeo can now
be had under P.T 3on per square metre. The
sites belonging to the Ghezireh Land Company,
which purchased three years ago some 81
feddaus in this locality, are selling at from
P.T. 62 to P.T. 156 per square metre, the
latter price being asked for the more attractive
lots bordering on the Nile. The land was divid-
ed into 133 lots, of which 65 have already been
disposed of. To the south of the above
property the War Office owns a small one,
whilst between the latter property and the
public gardens, in which is situated the grotto,
the lands belong to the Government, one side
of these lace the road running parallel with
the Nile branch or canal, and the other the
Ghezireh Palace property, which is also being
rapidly built over.

THE YEMEN CAMPAIGN.
Renter's Agency states that the reinforce-
ments for the Yemen have also arrived at
Hodeida with the exception of the Malaria
Red if (Reserve) Brigade and will, according to
the latest advices,ad vance on SanAt by Menakha,
while the other will move by Tais. The Otto
man authorities wish to recapture Sanaa, lbb,-
and the other towns in the possession of the
Imam’s forces before treating with the rebels.
It may be presumed that their real aim is
the complete destruction of the insurgent
forces, after which pourparlers will be greatly
simplified.
Another telegram states that the insurgents
are on the march to Mecca and that Faizi
Pasha, who has arrived at Hodeida, declares
that it is absolutely impossible to stop their
advance. It this statement is reliable it point#
to an extension of the revolt from the Yemen
province to the Azir district, which is inhabit
ed by the Beni Kahtan, Beni Thakif, and Beni
Otaiba Bedouins.
Tais, from which one of the Turkish co-
lumns is to start, is close to the frontier of
the Aden protectorate and about 70 miles
from the coast Menakha, which it about the
same distance from Hodeida, is only 40 miles
from Sanaa, but an army advancing to the
recapture of the headquarters of the Vllth
Army Corps will be obliged to fight its way
across a formidable mountain range whose
highest peaks are over 7,000 feet above sea
level.

1SMAILIA.
Last year, with the view of encouraging
owners of vessels, after discharging coal at
Port Raid, to load at Ismailia, and to prevent,
if possible, the complete decadence of the
latter town, which is practically owned by the
Baez Canal Company, the latter adopted a
very wise measure to try and counteract the
injury to the place brought about by the
opening of the new through line from Cairo to
Port Baud The measure was that such vessels
should pay only the very reduced tax of 2 frs.
60 c. per registered ton for the double
journey from Port Said to Ismailia and back,
instead of the usual rate of 4 francs each
way, the through rate from end to end, i.e.,
From Port Said to Suez, or vice versa, being
now 2 Ir 5o c. per ton. The advantage to
exporters from the districts near, like Zagazig,
Tantah, and even Benha, was great, since ship-
pers from Ismalia economise the heavy railway
freigbt from the latter station to Port Said,
which is more than the very moderate charge
ot 2 fr. 60c. fixed by the Canal Company.
The company furthermore proposed,should the
experiment prove remunerative, to construct
moles and jetties for the accommodation of
vessels, and do all it could to facilitate loading
operations.
From what we hear, it does not seem that
the result so far has come up to expectations,
and the town appears to be languishing for
want of some enterprise that will stimulate
its gradually dying trade, which was however
never of much account The decision taken two
years back by the P. & O. and other large com
panies to embark and disembark their local
passengers at Port Said instead of Ismailia, as
formerly, was another nail in the latter's
coffin, for we hear that tho management of
Shepheard's Hotel, who rented formerly the
Hotel Victoria at Ismailia from Mr. Marini,
the proprietor, has decided not to renew the
lease of ten years which has just expired.

It now appears that Mohamed el Maghazi, who
boarded a first class carriage near Maghagba
aud was seized by tbs occupant*, was after 1
all an employe of the 8urvsy Department who 1
jumped on to a moving train without a ticket, 1
and climbed into the first carriage that pro- '
seated itself.

KHEDIVIAL MAIL LINK

THE TRUTH ABOUT FASHODA.
CURIOUS REVELATIONS BY
COLONEL MARCHAND
Colonel Marc recently contributed to the 
"Matin” an important and most interesting
account of the origin of the Fashoda expedi-
tion. It was on Nov. 16, 1895, that M. Ber-
thelot, Minister of Foreign Affairs, signed and
approved of his plan for French intervention
in the Bahr el-Ghazal and on the Nila The
scheme, however, lay dormant until the follow-
ing spring, when the Sudan expedition was
announced by England. The attitude of the
French Government changed immediately. M.
Guioysso, the Minister of tho Colonies, im-
plored the writer to start as soon as possible,
and if he had obeyed he would have left
within forty eight hours, vompletely unpre-
pared for a journey over 10,000 kilometres of
country. M. Barthelot, who bad so for-
gotton himself as to) tell Lord Salisbury
that he declined all responsibility for the
consequences to which the Sudan expedi-
tion might lead, quitted the Quai d'Orsay
a few days after he had used such peculiar
language, and as M. Leon Bourgeois, the Pre-
sident of the Council, could not find anyone to
succeed him he took his place. About the first
thing that M. Bourgeois did was to send for
Colonel Marchand, preparations for whose
journey were then hurried on. This was in
March, 1896, and a few weeks later the Bourgeois
Ministry fell, and was replaced by the Meline
Cabinet, with M. Hanotaux at the Ministry of
Foreign A Hairs. M. Andrfi Lebon, the new
Minister of the Colonic-, was not so generous
in the matter of resources as M. Bourgeois
would have been, but the writer was again
enjoined to start as soon as he could.
The first convoy sailed from Bordeaux on
April 25, the others being transported in the
steamers that followed. Colonel Marchand
himself left Marseilles on June 25, 1896, at
which date the troops which were to accom-
pany him across Africa for the occupation of
Fashoda, if they arrived there before the
British army, were completing their movement
from Timbuctoo on Dakar and on Libreville,
in the French Congo. The writer says that his
officers and his own companions in the expedi-
tion were not aware of its destination until
eighteen months afterwards, when they were
in the very heart of Central Africa. It has
often been affirmed that M. Delcasse had
something to do with the organisation of the
Fashoda expedition. Colonel Marchand, how-
ever, terminates his instructive explanation
with the following emphatic words which close
"M. Deloasec, whom I hardly knew, and who
from February, 1895, to July, 1898, had no
share in the Government-the very reverse,
indeed, was the case—had nothing, absolutely
nothing, to do with the consideration, the pre
paration, and the execution of an expedition
of which he only became informed to pot an
end to it in October, 1898. All that has been
said contrary to this affirmation, which 1 make
on my honor, and which is based on history
itself, which can easily be examined, is only e
tale, which 1 wish now to demolish with one
blow, as 1 think that the time has come for me
to do so.”
Thus does Colonel Marchand dispose of one
of the charges brought against the late Minister
of Foreign Affairs, which was to the effect that,
although be had been an active promoter of
the Fashoda expedition, he deserted Colonel
Marchand when England adopted a resolute
attitude. Colonel Marchand's explanation has
created quite a sensation in political circles.

ATTEMPTED MURDER IN A
THEATRE.	
During a performance at Minieh of an Arabic
drama bearing the thrilling title of Love and
Revenge, by Sheikh Salema Hegazi and his
company, a dentist suddenly rose from bis
seat and rushed upon one of the occupants of a
box with drawn dagger. The victim of the
dentist's onslaught shouted for help, and the
police, aided by the cooler-headed spectators,
disarmed and arrested his assailant. An Arabic
contemporary states that the dentist, whom
we will call Mr. X, had been very intimate
with Y, the individual whom be attempted
to stab. The two lived in the same house,
and X eventually was trustful enough to
leave his wife in Y’s charge while paying
a visit to his old borne in Syria. The dentist 
returned in due course and found neither
his wife nor the furniture. The ingenious
Y had informed X's father and mother in-
law that he had fled the country owing to
debts caused by the extravagance of his wife.
They promptly sold the furniture and took B
their daughter away with them. Y then
brought in other lodgers, whom he considered
more profitable acquaintances than the luckless
X. whose resentment at the brutal practical
joke played upon him was, no doubt, too
violently expressed, but can easily be unders-
tood.

PASSENGER LISTS.


ARRIVALS.
Le paqnebot "Equatenr," des Messageriea
Maritime* arrive do Marseille le 27 join avail
hbotd:
M. et Mmo Buhl. M. et Mme Hadji*, M. et
Mme Call, M. I. Bialobo, Mme Sehraber. M.
Boudon, M. I. A. 8. Watt, Sergent Lidell, M.
S. Tahemy, M. Norman, M. Alex. Tarabotti.
M. Le Hoax, M. Benoit, M. Debbat, Rev. A.
H. Manning, M.<Aim6 Boudamar, Dr A. D,
Louliaa, M. et Mme Jos. Conloossi, M.Ceysen*.
M. Clogstom et 11 passagers de 3me et 4me
clase.
Per Moss 8 3. "Seti" arrived yesterday from
Liverpool, Gibraltar, Algiers, and Malta : —
Mr. and Mrs Altohedijan, 4 children and
none, Capt Powell, Mr. Aquilina, Mr. Bubs-
giar, Mr. Cafiro, Mr. and Mr*. Gardner Brown,
Mr. G. Gulliver, Mr. Leo Montegue, Mr. end
Mr*. Moriaaoni, Mis* A B. Romeino, and 11
deck passengers

PERSONAL AND SOCIAL
Lord Edward Cecil Pasha, D.8.O., is expect
ed to arrive et Cairo next Wednesday on the
completion of his leave.

Mr. H. Boyle will leave for England early in
July

Capt. McMurdo, head of the Slave Trade
Department, is expected to arrive in Cairo
from his inspecting tour up the White Nile on
friday next.

The death is announced of Doctor Roger,
former medical surgeon attached to the French
Ethiopian Railways, and chief medical officer
who accompanied the Rothschild Mission across
Abyssinia and Uganda.

Major R N. Gamble, D.S.O., 2nd Battalion
R. Berkshire Regiment, has been granted
leave of absence for three months.	

Mr. C. Aquilina, proprietor of the Carlton
Hotel, Bulkeley, has returned to Alexandria
from Malta.

Among the latest arrivals at the Savoy
Hotel, Port Said, we notice Pastor Kahle, Dr.
end Mme. Wild. Mr. Saint Port Mortier, Mr.
Cameo. Mr. Vincent, M and Mme. Doom
moot, Mahmoud Bey Saddik, Mr. A. Kings
Brothers. Mr. T. A. Sean, Major Persse Bey,
Major Matthews, Capt. Rome, Capt C. Ehyall,
Orphi Bey, Gibson Pasha, Capt Adams, Mr.
and Mr*. 8. Heath, Mr. & A Sou, Mr. T. A.
W. Peacock, Dr. and Mr*. Hayward, Dr. and
Mr*. Wilson.

NOTES FROM CYPRUS
SUMMER SEASON COMMENCES.
(From our Correspondent).
Nicosia, June 22.
Several storm* have been reported daring
the last few day* as having occnrred in various
parts of the Island. Yesterday it was learnt
that a portion of the road leading to Mt Troo-
dos had been rendered impassable to traffic
owing to debris that had been washed down by
heavy rains. Unfortunately this road will have
to be much used this week, in consequence
of the departure today of his Excellency and
the Secretariat for the summer quartan on
Troodos. The summer season may now be
said to bare commenced, and will probably
continue, as usual until about the second week
ot October, when, as a rule, the Government
returns to Nicosia. The heat in the plains has.
been so far much lass severe than usual -.
nevertheless most officials will welcome the
change to higher altitudes, lie battalion of
the King’s Royal Rifles has already arrived at
Troodos from Polemedia Camp.

GREEK SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
This week was held the first election, under
the new Education Law, of the Creak School
Committee for Nicosia. As a good deal of
party feeling exists in the Island owing to the
divisions censed by the vexed Archiepiscopel
question, which still remains open, this new
opportunity for a party display caused con-
siderable excitement, and it is not yet general-
ly known which party was successful at the

A MOSLEM CEREMONY.
The ceremony of inaugurating the newly-
built minaret of the Eomerie Mosque in Nico-
sia took place yesterday in the presence of
his Excellency and Indy King Ham an and
several officials. The function was largely
attended by the Moslem community.

BNCOURAGING PLORICULTURK
A public garden has been laid out at Limas
sol this winter. This was a pet scheme of the
late High Commissioner, Sir William p.
Haynes-Smith, and is likely to add largely to
the attraction* of that town. . It it gradually
getting planted, and in course of time should
provide a pleasant lounge for the residents.
The Government Nursery Garden adjoins it,
where a number of plants are raised and can
easily be transplanted. There is also a Govern-
ment Nursery Garden at Larnaca, and both a
nursery end an experimental garden at Nico-
sia. Forest end trait trees in large nursery
are raised in these gardens, as well u many
flowering plants and shrub*, palms, etc., in
pots, which are sold to the public at very
low cost. Grafts and buds are also obtain-
able, and it is the object of the Govern-
ment by this means to encourage tree planting
and the cultivation of good kinds of fruit
Similar gardens are doing useful work in other
part* of the Island, bat there is room for an
extension in this direction. It is hoped that
before long they will be used for the practical
purpose of demonstrating various methods of
cultivation.
