The Largest and Most
Furnishing Establishment
the “Cathcart” Dining Room Suite in Mahogany, Walnut or Fumed Oak, with braes mountings, oonsists of 6 ft
Sideboard with handsomely carved pediment and panels, bevelled mirrors in back, lower portion usefully fitted with
'drawers, cupboards and collarette; 3 ft 6 in Silver Cabinet, extreme height 7 ft fitted with dear glass shelves
and mirrored b&ck;( 3 ft' 6 in Dinner Wagon with two drawers and cupboard; Dining Table 4 ft wide and extending
to 8 ft long, with extra leaves and' patent screw; six very strong Dining P~"n Chairs with carved baoks, upholstered
in beet marone morocco: Price ineludes backing and delivery F.O.B. London	..	£70 0 0
Separate prloes on XppMttatfon
“ONE of the SIGHTS of LONDON”
RffAPLB & CO invite residents of Cairo, Alexandria, Damanhour, Tantah, Mansourah, Damietta, Samahud, Rosetta, Miniah,
iU IsmaUia, Port Said, and districts, when visiting London	through these epaoious ehowrooma and galleries. and
see for themsslves all the latest rioveltias and new productions. MAPLE A CO alto send patterns of all Unde of material, and
illustrations of furniture, bedsteads, *0., on ap^UbStlon, and give inclusive f.o.b, estimates whsn dssired.
TH1
10TPTME
gasitti, satuuday, july i < i»b.
<head>EGYPT’S TRADE.<head>
<head>COAL IMPORTS IN 1904.<head>
<p>( From the Journal of the British Chamber
of Commerce.) \
So far as Alexandria is concerned, there is
vary little ti be said about its coal trade during
the past year of 1904. One feature of relief to
what proved a vary humdrum course of busi-
ness may be seen in the increase of imports by
’87,044 tons, thus making 1904, by its total of
1,095,014 tons, a record importing year. Prices,
beyond a tempo:...y advance (notably in Car
diff quality) immediately following the out
break of the Russo-Japanese war (9th February
1904), evinced a gradual decline daring the
year and freights, demonstrated a similar giv-
ing way, notwithstanding the plaintive echo of
the shipowners’ usual war cry of “Low Freights.”
The highest freights obtained were 6/6 from
Cardiff and 6/- from Newcastle, during April
and May, and the lowest 4/3 and 4/7 } from
the respective ports during September.
No strikes at home interfered with the re-
gular course of supplies, and probably the
only cause to overbalance the regularity of
a steady trade was the excessive import
which from time to time was forced on the
port, temporarily congesting its quays, taxing
the powers of the Egyptian State Railways,
and the loading facilities of the Nile boats,
and depressing the market generally.
The value, free into waggons, of Cardiff best,
early Jan. 1904 was 24/-. The value, free into
waggons, of Newcastle best, early Jan. 1904, wss
20/-. The value, free into waggons, of Scotch
best, early Jan. 1904, was 19/-, and the tone of
the market was firm, merchants, stocks being
estimated at 65,000 tons. At the end of Decem-
ber these same qualities ruled respectively
1/- 9d. and 1/tj lower, the market being calm
and stocks Cully 105,000 tons, irrespective of
the stocks held by the Egyptian State
Railway Administration on their special re-
served storage ground at the N. W. end of
the mole.
In both quality and quantity, Cardiff takes
the lead, Newcastle follows second, and Scotch
takes a good third ; then, in order of merit,
come the lower qualities of Yorkshire and
Lancashire; these rival counties now vie
with each other as peaceful coal exporters
and contributed conjointly to the year’s Alex-
andria .market some 88,000 tons.
The competition between the counties is
fairly even; the average price daring the year
being 14/6 C. F. and I including export tax.
The freight out from Hall fell to as low as
4/- and never surpassed 4/9, whereas the freight
from Liverpool ruled at 5/- per ton.
Both qualities are fairly well liked in this
country, probably by reason of their relative
cheapness. Lancashire’s better class is in-
creasing in favor, and Lancashire Slack
competes with Newcastle Slack and finds
ready purchasers among some of the lime-
burning community.
The total importation into Egypt during
1904 of coal, coke, and patent fuel amounted
to 2,?04,314 tons, Great Britain sending
2,102,455 tons, Germany 88,825 tons, Turkey
9,338 tons, Belgium 3,6:6 tons, and France
30 tons ; total 2,204,314 tons. Neither America
nor India contributed.
As compared with figures given in 1901, the
supplies forwarded by rail inland by the trade
at Alexandria increased, during 1904, by
5,971 tons, whereas the trade increased their
forwarding by water inland during 1904 by
23,505 tons. One outcome of this increased
Nile traffic has been a natural assumption of
independence on the part of the native boat
owners, who, in many cases, demand payment
of their entire freight oa sailing, instead of
their hitherto current acceptation of two-thirds
on sailing and one third on arrival at destina-
tion. By this latter arrangement, the current
ontturn at destination wa3 -manifestly guaran-
teed. The native boat -owners may revert to
their old conditions if they can look ahead,
and if they can grasp the possibilities of com-
petition—already started by powerful and
influential Nile lowage companies. Of these,
there are now seven,all well established,owning
steam bargies, pontoons and tow boats, working
systematically under organised staffs and
regular departures. These advantages our
native friends lack.
The towage hence to Boulac, the port of
Cairo, occupies 4 to 5 days, a distance of 185
miles. The native sailing boats, dependent on
wind and weather, and often on the caprice of
the raissa, take 15 to 25 days to cover the
voyage via the Mabmoudieh Canal to Atfeh
and thence via the Nile. The railway route
hence to Boulac-Dacronr or to one of the goods
stations of Cairo iB 130 miles.
Loss by shortages se far appears incurable.
Stocks ashore lose, partly, by natural wastage,
from 1 % to 2 %. The process of discharging
from colliers is always and everywhere waste-
ful. The 2 % allowance for non-weighing
taken off the very low freights current dur-
ing the year is a very bare compensation.
Railway transit shows a loss of from 1% to 4%;
whilst river transit by undecked native craft
requires careful watching and and protective
freight arrangements. The results of carriage
by the Nile towage companies are, so far,
satisfactory—the oargo being stowed under
hatches.
The quantity salved horn the harbour daring
1904 by the Company of Dredgers, licensed by
the Port Office, was declared at 984 tons 12
owt On this the Customs levy, for a second
time, the import duty, the “jetsam” being
“abandoned property” (when the oollior leaves
her discharging herth), is treated as a new
property for purposes of import duty when
recovered by the subservient and baudy died-
german, licensed or otherwise. There may he
a difference of opinion as to whether part qf a
cargo bhing only “imported” oboe Mould he
itruok twice by the duty.<p>
The trade still suffers from inadequacy of
discharging berths.
Claims for demurrage are sometimes com-
promised, but, during the autumnal conges-
tion, sums, amofanting;to'i>500, were paid >n
demurrage, positively incurred by three happy
go-lucky consignees. N	,
The situation is still strained and delays
will occur from to time until it be relieved
by accommodation necessitated by the deve-
loping trade of the port. The Railway Admin-
istration could help, matters by giving up at
least two thirds of their own specially reserved
'and at the N.fV. end' of the mole, capable
of holding for them an unnecessary and
uncalled for stock of 30,000 tons, and
could help further by modifying the terms on
which they allow the trade to accost two of
their specially reserved berths, say, Nos. 0
and 5.—The terms ruling now are that “No
“ ship, except those having railway coal or
“ railways stores, shall accost Nos. 9 and 5
“ without a written engagement to haul off if
«the berth be required by a ship consigned to
the Administration.” — Few consignees can
afford to accept such one sided conditions.
. Again, on the congestion of the port, the
merchants of Alexandria have been told in
the last report of the Financial Adviser that
the “blocking was partly due to their apathy
in not providing sufficient lighters to land their
goods nar sufficient carts to carry them away.”
Now so far as the coal merchants are concerned,
they object to this charge of apathy—unless
it be understood to mean their point-blank
refusal to invest cash in fleets of lighters,
which have not, during the last twenty years,
earned even the basis of a depredation fund,
still less a fair percentage for profit.
Moreover, it is not so much the lack of
lighters as the absence of accommodation for
their protection during rough weather and
daring night-time, and the actual want of
quay space daring crowded times where-
at to effect discharge, which have been
and still are matters of complaint. These
have been over and over again pointed out to
the authorities since the so called improve-
ments of the port A correspondent wrote
from Alexandria on 9th October 1880 in a
letter, already quoted in these columns,
addressed to the Liverpool Incorporated Cham-
ber of Commerce :—“No corner of the port
“ has been set apart for the accommodation of
‘the lighters and there is actually no place
“ available for the purpose.”
Lighters will be imported and lighters will.
be built fast enough if the industry should
chance to pay its way. The authorities would
encourage the revival of the trade were they
to provide some sheltering basins to protect
these useful little craft and their attendant
craftsmen who, a score of years ago, were
numbered by their hundreds.
As to the insufficiency of carts, the master
carters can speak for themselves, hut it may
be suggested it is not the insufficiency of
the vehicles but rather the difficulties the
employers have in using them, owing to the
oeffested state of the roads, blocked as they
have been during this year by merchandise
and obstructions of all sorts. The coal quay
is not allowed to sin in t£is respect, for
a clear road-way is maintained from one/
end of the quay to the other, and it
kept open by a simple supervision which
appears to be lacking over the streets of
Alexandria. The construction of an arm,
extending-from the N.W. end of the mole
and pointing towards the Mex Coast,is planned,
so far, for four new berths. Of these long
expected and patiently waited for desiderata,-
one berth should be ready early next season
and the other three early in 1906. The land
storing accommodation held folly 105,000 tons/
of merchants’ coal daring the busy time at the
end of the year, but the close stacking, with
its risk of fire, caused inconvenience, expense
and trouble.
Generally speaking, the condition of the
-trade is healthy. Home supplies have not been
.interfered with, and means of transit inland
have been uninterrupted. Shorter and more
reasonable credits are now given. A shady
class of purchasers has been more or. less
eliminated, and fewer bad debts have been
contracted. One weak feature, however, has
been the uneven importation—sometimes for-
tuitous, but often caused through shortsight-
edness or sheer carelessnes. It cannot be said
that the total import is excessive, because
every ton imported finds its purchaser—but a
more even import would check sudden and
uncalled for increase of stocks, and would
prevent the locking np of capital, invested in
what is a deteriorating merchandise.
Some sailor seven years ago, an actual stock
of 30,000 tons was named ample. Now, with
increasing consumption, this figure may be
altered to 50,000 tons, and were merchants to
keep this fact before them and endeavour to
irrange for their imports accordingly, they
would lessen their expenses and their risks.
Competition here is always keen and not
altogether undesirable. When, however, it
becomes wild and leads to unprofitable realisa-
:ions, it is hard to see how legitimate traders
’can get a fair return for their labour.<p>
To ensure a natural movement. of bowels, it
13 moat, important to take plenty of exercise
every day. Man/, men and women don’t do
this, and they become more/or less costive,
sometimes going two or three days without
a passage from the bowels! This is at very
serious thing, not only because constipation
makes our food and blood impure, but? because
the prolonged presence of waste patter in the
bowels strains the muscular walls, eventually
paralysing them, so that instruments have to be
used to remove the impurities. -
Those who cannot get enough exercise, or
whose work is sedentary, should use Doan’s
Dinner Pills, which are made from pure roots
and herbs that act on the bowels, invigorating
the muscular walls, and toning np the nerves,
liver, stomach, and whole digestive organism.
Doan’s Dinner Pills soften the mass of dogging
waste, preventing piles, and inflammation of
the intestines ; and, they core sluggish liver,
indigestion, biliousness, headache, poor appetite,
impoverished blood, and every symptom of
liver, stomach, or bowel trouble.
Dohn’s Dinkier Pills are for sale by all
chemists and druggists at P.T. 5 a box; or
they may be had direct from the general
agent for Egypt,- Max Fischer, Hotel da Nil
Street, Mousky, Cairo.<p>

DOAN’S OINTMENT cure3 every, form of
itching skin disease — Eczema, Ringworm,
Itching Piles, etc. The price of Doan’s Oint-
ment is P.T. 13 per pot, or P.T. 71 for 6 pots.
To be had of all chemists, or direct from the
general agent for Egypt,—Max Fischer, Hotel
da Nil Street, Mousky, Cairo.

ior
7
bicn
# of
Administration des
Postes
Credit Foncier Egyptian Municipalite of Alexandria
\	—	i
Messieurs les Actiotmaires sont convoques ,
on Assemble Generale Extraordinaire pour le j
-amedi 8 julliet 1905 an Siege Social au Cairo ,
k 4 heures du soir.

Ordrf, du Jour	J
1.	) Proposition d’augmentation du Capital :
Social par la creation de nou voiles Actions de j
francs, le quart versfi, en vue du projet |
d’achat des creances de la Societi Egyptienne
de la Dura Sanieh ou autres operations.

2.	) Modifications aux articles 4,^8,30.31 et
34 des Statuts et k tous autres qu’il serait
necessaire.

Tout porteur de 50 Actions a droit d’assister
k l’Assemble Gfinfirate Extraordinaire confor-
mfiment k l’Artiole 28 des Statuts.

En contormitfi de 1’art‘de 34 les delibera-
tions de la presente Assemblfie ue serout vala-
bles qu’autant que les actions representees
forment la moitie an moins du Capital Sooial.

Les Aotious devrout fitre dfiposfies .
Eu Egypte au pfos tard le 7 juiliet 1905,
Ea Europe an plus tard le 22 join 1905.
Les depdts serout re^us :
Au Cairo, au Siege Social,
A Alexandria, au Credit Lyonnais,
* Ea Europe :
Au Credit Lyonnais
A 1* Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bak
A la Socifitfi Generate'
An Comptoir National d’Escompte
A la Socidte Generate de’Crfidit Indus-
trie! et Commercial.	26030-6*-5
a vrs

La Municipality met en adjudication la
fmmiture dos divers imprimfi3 et registres
necessaires k ses services pour les annfies
1906^1907 et-1908.
Le cautionnement est fixe k L.R. cent
Le cahier des charges est depose au Service
de la Compabilite Generate oh il peut fit re
oonsulte par los interesses tous les jours de
9 h. k midi, les jours feries exoeptes.
Les offros devront fitre. adressfies sous pli
cachete k Monsieur l’Administrateur de la Mu-
uicipalite avant le 18 juiliet 1905.
Elies pourront egalement fitre deposees en
seance de la Delegation le mfime jour k 5h.p.m.
L’enveloppe devra porter en outre la men-
tion: “Soumission pour 1’Impression del divers
Imprimes et registres.”
Le oautionnement ou le re^u d’une banque,
d’aprhs les conditions du cahier des charges,
devra fitre remis separement au Service de la
Oomptabilite Generate avant l’ouverture des
offres et an plus tard le 18 juiliet kmidi,
Toute offre qai ne remplit pas lea conditions
oi-dessus sera ecartee.
L’Administrateur.
(signe) P. W. ChItaWay.
Alexandria, le 28 join 1905.	26179-3-3

GREAT SPECIAL SALE
FOR ACCOUNT OF THE
ARMY OF OCCUPATION.

On Thursday, 6th July 19Q5, and following
days, at 9 a.m., M. Della Torre, Auctioneer,
will proceed to sell by public auction, in the
Ordnance <yard at Kasr el Nil barracks, Cairo,
a great number of article), new and old, of
general utility, comprising carts, char-a-bancs,
drays and Wagons of various kinds, wheels,
axletrees, casks, harness and saddlery, tents,
cordage, sacks, blankets for men and for
horses, mattresses and pillows, tanks for wafer
or petroleum, of iron and of copper, packing
cases, boxes of various kinds, tools and
materials for shoeing smiths and others,a great
quantity of iron, leather, bronze, gunmetal,
wood, oakum, etc., etc., etc!
The articles can be seen at the place of sale
on the three days preceding the sate from 9 to
11 a.m.
For any farther information.please apply to
M. Della Torre, at his saleroom, Sharia Abdin,
Maison V. Bittar et fils	26163-3* 3

The Egyptian Delta Light Railways Ltd.
DIVIDEND WARRANT No. 15 BEARER
WARRANT COUPON No. 12.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 2,%
for the half year ended 31st March 1905,
(subject to Income tax) on the Preference
Share Capital will be payable on and after
the 23rd Jane 1905, at the National Bank
of Egypt, London or Cairo and Alexandria,
the current rate of exchange.
beRegistered Share Dividend Warrants will
at posted on the 23rd Jane.	26171-5-4

AVIS
L’Assembles Gem!rate Extraordinaire de
1’Alexandria General Produce Association,
tenue le 28 Juin, a decide dajouter (Page 20
da. Reglement des Contrats de Coton) un nou-
vel alinea k l’article 10, savoir : 1
“ Le Coton pressfe k la vapeur nest livrable
" qu’aux conditions suivantes:	/
“ 1" Les frais de pressage ne peuveut pas
“ fit reclames par le vandeur ; V
2° Le vendeur est tenu de payer a l’aohe-
“ tear une bonification de P.T. 10 le eantar.’
Pour le Oomitfi
Le President en ioteotion
P. Fenderl
N.B. Cette disposition entrera en vigueur k
partir du ler Avril 1906.
Alexandrie le 29 Jain 1905. „	26191-3-1

CARLTON HOTEL.
Bnlkeley, Ramleh.
£tn minutes from Alexandria. First-class in every respect.
Very moderate charge. Bulkeloy is the fashionable English
quarter. Visitors from Cairo alight at Sidi Gabor station.
NM044440I	U AQTJILINA. JPrnwUU*.

AVIS
La Societe des Eaux du Cairo porte k la
connaissance du Public, que son Installa-
tion pour la distribution aes Eaux k Koub-
beh-Zeitoun et Matarieh fitant achevfie, elle
est prfite k foumir dans les elites locality,
l’eau pour la oonsommation, arrosage des
jardins, chan tiers de constructions et tons
autres besoina.
Toute demande de concession devra fitre
flute i»r lettre k Tad rosso do Direateur de
la Socifitfi des Eaux du Cairo.
Le tarif du prix de l’eau dans les dites
locality, taut par abonnement fixe que par
oompteur, est k la disposition du public, dans
les Bureaux de la Socifitfi Avon cede Bo«lac au
Caire.
La Society est prfite k fitablir ses canalisa-
tions d’ean dans les rues non pourvues de
oonduites, lorsqn’elle aura regu des demandes
suffisantes de oonoession pour une mfime rue.—
Les habitants de Konbben, Zeitonn et Matarieh
sont dono prifia de presenter tear demandes
par groupes rfisidant dans une mfime rue, afin
de permettre k la Socifitfi d’examiner sans re-
tard tears demandes, en vue de canaliser et
de tear aooorder des concessions d’eau.
Le Cairo, le 23 Janvier 1905.
Le Direotenr,
25329-40*-27	Astlxy P. Friend.

-
La Municipality met en adjudication les
travanx de Canalisation dans la me Abdel
Moneim.
Le cautionnement est fixd k L.E. 8.
Le cahier des oharges est ddposy an Bureau
de la Voirie oh il pent fitre consultfi par tee
intyressys tons les jonrs de 9 h. k midi, les
jours ffirifis exceptfis.
Les offres devront fitre adressfies sons pli
oachette k Monsieur 1’Administrate or de ia
Municipality avant tell jnillet 1905.
Tullea pourront ygalement fitre dfipoafies en
3fiance de Ia Dfilfigation le fime jour a 5h.p.m.
L’enveloppe devra porter en outre la men-
tion : “Soumission pour la Canalisation rue
Abdel Moneim.
Le cantioniiement ou le re$u d’une banque,
I’aprfis les conditions du cahier des oharges,
levra fitre remis sfiparfiment au Service de la
Oomptabilitfi' Gfinfirale avant l’ouverture des
offres et aq pins tard tell jaiHetiDnidi.
'Toute offre qui ne remplit pas les conditions
ci^tessus sera ficartfie. '
L’Administrateur
(signfi) W. P. Chataway.
Alexandrie, le29 juin 1905.'	26187-3-

• . 1
Societe Anonyme des Earn de Tantah.
AVIS AUX ACJ10NNAIRES.
Messieurs les actionnairea de la Socifitfi
Anonyme des Eaux de Tantah sont informfis
qu’k partir du lundi 3 Juiliet 1905, les cou-
pons de l’Exeroice 1904 ainsi que le montant
des actions amorties nar tirage an sort, seront
payables an Sifige de la Solifitfi.
De mfime. k partir de la mfime date,
l’fichange:	_	)
1° des titros anoiens d’actions libfirfies de
£15, chaonn contre 3 titres nouveaux de £5
ontifirement libfirfies,
2’ des titres anoiens d’actiona de Jouissanoe
chaonn contre 3 titres nouveaux d’actions de
Jonissance,
sera figalement effectufi an Sifige de la Socifitfi.
L’administratenr dfiifignfi,
Joseph A. Cattaui Bey.
1 Le Caire, le 30 Join 1905.	26190-1
AGRICOLE ET
OCIETE ANjONYME
I ET INDUSTRIELLE 0
IND0STR1ELLE D’EGYPTE
A Vf^
Les portenrs d’obligations 4 p. % (Emission
1905) sont informfis que le coupon N“ i sera
payfi k partir du 15 Juiliet prochain.
An- Caire : An Sifige Social.
A Anvers : A lk Banque d’Anvers.
A BruxellesrJA la Socifitfi ^Gfinfirale.
•	.	*	26173-2*1
and
^'^vc L?rgc^t‘ and Most “Convenient
^Furnishing Establishment in the World
HUNDREDS ^THOUSANDS of POUNDS WORTH OF HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE,
bedsteads; bedding, cutlery, c^ina, glass, silver ware, carpets,
CURTAINS, BLINDS, 81 c., always ready/ for immediate shipment. A house furnished^
throughout in three days
— _	______-W&--------——.
THE KHEDIVIAL MAIL STEAMSHIP
AND GRAVING DOCK COMPANY LIMITED.
NOTICE ig hereby given that the half-
yearly 5^ % Cumulative Preference dividend
coupon No. 13 Will be paid by the Imperial
Ottoman Bank, Alexandria, or Messrs. Glyn
Mills Carrie & Co., London, on and after June
30th 1905.	26167-6-6
SOCIETE ANONYME DU BEHENA
