/
THU EGYPTIAN
SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1905.

A
K The IDEAL MILK FOODS for HOT CLIMATES.
The ‘Allenburys’ Foods.’
Tho “Allenburys” Foods give strength and Stamina, and supply all that Is required for the formation
of- firm flesh and bone. They promote perfect health, and give freedom from digestive troubles and the
disordars common to children fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or cow's milks	,
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND. .
Depot in Cairo:—E. Deli Mar, 25, Aout. ,	\

LADIES
&
GENTS
OUTFITTING.
S.STEIN
PURVEYOR TO H.H. THE KHEDIVE.
CAIRO ,
Esbekleh, Ataba el Khadra.
Also at Alexandria and hantah. *	—
RELIABLE
BRITISH
GOODS.

OUR LONDON LETTER.
(From our Correspondent).
London, Jane 23.
At Ascot, yesterday, the leading event was the
Plate, which, in the early years of her marriage,
was named after the Queen Alexandra that is,
and it would seem, with the happiest results.
"Racing,” King Edward’s great-grand-uncle,
the Duke of Cumberland, is said to have re-
marked, "languishes for want of support from
the Crown and aristocracy.” So he went a-
racing, with "the best stock, the best blood,
and the most numerous stud in the kingdom.”
Later on, the Ascot he virtually made felt
the influence of the “added money” of the big
gate meetings. The Alexandra Plate was the
first instance, on classic ground, where £1,000
was added to the stakes. True, the race was
inaugurated by the victory of Count de La-
grange’s Fille de l’Air, so named after a fairy-
tale by Cogniard Fibres, which was drawing
all Paris to the old "Fol. Dram.” “But since,”
remark the Earl of Suffolk and Berkshire and
Mr. W.G. Craven, "the wealth and liberality of
the Royal Meeting have increased pari passu."
Twenty years ago, these authorities could
aver, "all that is most excellent in horseflesh,
and mo3t ambitious in ownership, is annually
attracted to this favoured spot.” The favored
spot has lost none of its attractions since 1886,
and the brilliance of the era which the writers
dated from the founding of the Alexandra
Plate has, assuredly, suffered no eclipse.

The most effective and artistic incident of
the Royal trip down the Thames on Saturday,
when t lie Prince of Wales inaugurated the
London County Council steamboat service, was
the skillful display of the Prince of Wales’s
feathers in water by the Metropolitan Fire
Brigade on their fire float. The pretty device
was exceedingly well’ reproduced. An unsa-
tisfactory circumstance of the trip was that the
Prince allowed himself to be so closely surround-
ed by his friends on the “King Alfred,” that the
crowds on the Embankment and on the bridges
had the utmost difficulty in distinguishing His
Royal Highness.

The Prince of Wales, on his arrival at
Cardiff on Friday of next week, will drive
straight to the Castle, ,the Marquis of Bute’s
magnificent residence in the centre of fhe town,
where Lord Buto will entertain him at lun-
cheon. In the afternoon His Royal Highness
will lay the foundation-stone of the new Uni-
versity College in Cathays Park, and later will
attend the graduation ceremony. The Prince
will be the guest on Friday night of Lord and
Lady Windsor at fit. Fagan’s, their seat just
outside Cardiff, where a distinguished party
will be invited to meat him. The functions on
Saturday include the conferring on the Prinoe
of the freedom of the borough, followed by a
municipal banquet, aud he will leave Cardiff
for’ London the same day.

The principle on which Civil Lis; pensions
are granted is sometimes hard to understand.
There is, happily, no difficulty in approving
Shat just published. The names which have
ca,led forth official bounty are either great
names or names associated with solid, benefi-
cial, But alas ! unremunerative work. J. G.
Frazer, le Neve Foster, York Powell, and
Freeman : under these cognomens the educa-
tion and well-being of mankind have been
furthered. So in a smaller degree with the
others mentioned in the list. But, though
satisfactory, it is a sad record. To many of the
pensions the phrase “straitened circumstances”
is added as a reason for the giving. Astronomers
and physicists, men who have given -their lives
to history and research, die without monetary
reward for their services, leaving their families
In such a condition that a hundred pounds from the Civil List comes as a real blessing.
Supposing, for instance, that Professor York
Powell had devoted his great gifts to commerce
or finance, he would perhaps have died a
millionaire ; certainly his Slaughter would no£.
have struggled with “inadequate means of
support." It is to such cases that Civil List
pensions are properly applied.

The great Indian controversy is over, and
Lord Kitchener has scored a great victory.
The anomalous position of the Commander-in-
Chief, which brought about the regrettable
possibility of his resignation, is a thing of the
past, and Mr. Brodrick was able yesterday to
make the important and welcome announce-
ment that Lord Kitchener will in future have
a free hand in the management of all the mili-
tary combatant services. It would have been a
serious calamity for India had tike outcome
been any other. Glad as we should and shall
be one day to have the benefit of that master-
mind in the organisation of our own military
affairs, it is a matter of greater nrgenoy that
the work so well begun in India should first be
accomplished. The details of his reorganisation
scheme Mr. Brodrick also laid before the
House of Commons. It entails a considerable
expenditure, but the consideration that it will
not only increase and improve the Indian
Army, but render it independent df home

probably disincline him to attempt any settle-
ment of the Norwegian difficulty.
If Swedish Princes can recover nfem the
affront to their dynasty, and one of them
should be asked to acoept the Norwegian
Crown, there are younger sons of the King
who sight suit The Crown Prinoess of Den-
mark, a Swedish Princess by birth, also has a
son or two who oould be spared for a situation
worthy of acceptanoo.

With a courtesy and a touch of sentiment so
characteristic of the Japanese, acknowledgment
of subscriptions to the Japanese Soldiers’ and
Sailors’ Widows and Families Fond is made in
very graceful fashion. A correspondent for
wards his receipt for my inspection. It includes
an acknowledgment from the Treasurer of the
Red Cross Society of Japan, a printed note in
Japanese, and a pretty little lacquered cup
wrapped in a silk handkerchief and forwarded
from Tokio in a sandalwood box tied with
green silk cord. The cup constitutes a charming
souvenir of the gratitude of our Eastern allies.

Whether war correspondence is declining or
not as a permanent profession, it seems to be
the quickest way to prominence. The eldest
son of the late Sir Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett has
beer through a tolerable slice of the Japanese
war, and watched the siege of Port Arthur with
General Nogi. After the surrender he came
back through the States, and lectured to many
military and civilian audiences, one of his
marked successes being at West Point Academy.
?or the benefit of as here at home he leotures
on Monday afternoon at the United Service
nstitntion, accompanying his remarks with
photographs of his own taking. And soldiers of
an fclder generation may not he disinclined to
earn something from this enterprising junior
ofWenty-four. 
.
,ils of his reorganisation	were “^astonished that anyone
also laid before the lsh®B.ld wnte Lto *he Pap6” complaining on
t entails a considerable t®lklDg * the Opera. Having taken our
nsideration that it will Pleasnr0 yeT* ?ften dar*ng the 8*8on m.8tells
[improve the Indian m the Opera House in always varying positions,
independent df home W0 hav* never once hLeard	^ du,nng
«, more than justifies frf<?r“awh“*7' 01
d a-half millions which ^.absorbed than ourselves, and we are as
realisation	quiet as mutes when the music charms our
ears. 0..e night an old gentleman enthusiast
—	worried us a little beoanse he would begin
court-martial upon the “Brava' brava’” ^	^
supplies in case of war, more than justifies fhe	whisper, or
the outlay of two and a-half millions which less absorbed than ourselves,
will be required for its realisation.	1u,et a9 mn.te* when, j^10 “n

The finding of the court-martial upon the
submarine disaster is satisfactory in so far 88
it acquits Lieutenant Candy and the other
survivors of all blame ; but unsatisfactory, and
necessarily so, because it was found impossible
exactly to determine what brought about
A 8’s loss of trim and inability to answer the
helm at the last. Only the dead helmsman,
probably, could have cleared up one doubt. It
is certain that the submarine somehow got out
of trim, owing to some shifting of weight,
either on the part of the crew or by the ad-
mission of water. But it cannot he known
whether the horizontal diving rudders really
were put hard up in good time to counter-
act the forward dip, as Lieutenant Candy
ordered. They were found hard up finally, but
may have been put so too late. A blunder may
have been made earlier and the rudders pat
down instead of up, or they may have been in-
adequate to counteract the loss of trim. These
seem to be the alternatives, and both raise
questions as to the delicate stability of these
ships which call for farther expert investigation.

It is perhaps better for all parties that the
Norwegians declared their views openly before
the marriage of Prinoe Gustavua Adolphus.
The Royal bride and bridegroom, with relatives
on both sides, now know what not to expeot,
and will* not be obliged to inolude Norway in
their tourist programme, or to waste civilities
on people who do not wish to see them.


The separate Crown of Norway would not
be worth the acceptance of any Prince of
standing, were it not that the existence of
a Republic in northern Europe might lead
to considerable awkwardness, and weaken the
monarchical principle ^neighbouring countries
It remains to be seen whether one of Berffa-
dotte’s Swedish or Danish descendants will be
able to adjust matters, less to benefit the self-
assertive Norwegians than* to maintain the
prestige of the Royal caste.

Prince Charles of Sweden, third son of King
Oscar, is forty-four years of age, and is married
to his jrinswoman, Princess Ingeborg of Den-
mark, who |s twenty-seven. They are a oheer-
fcfl, sensible couple, and would make a good
King and Queen. Prince Eugene of Sweden,
King Oscar’s fourth sen, is forty year of age
unmarried, and has artistic tastes which would

their last phrase. Except for this, and for the
men who go ont at the end of each act and
won’t return in time for the beginning of the
next, there is nothing at all to complain of the
opera. Between acts there is, of coarse, a
regular babel of chatter, and some of it is so
fanny, especially this week when the Londoner
points opt to the oonntry cousin all the great
folk present, and the country cousin is quite
satisfied, never thinking that the people pointed
out are at Ascot and their boxes ocoupied
by friends. After all, the country oousin is
gratified, and no one is a pin’s point the worse,
l’.erswhat the real people wonld think
ey see those pointed ont for them!

The docking of a ship at Portsmouth is gene-
rally looked forward to by the dockyard
‘‘mateys’’ as an excellent opportunity of obtain-
ing some good fishing. About a foot of water is
always left in the dock for cleaning out, and
the fish can lie easily seen swimming about un-
able to escape. Last Saturday at one of the
docks quite a number of bass were - discovered
by the dockers, and much amusement was
caused by the frantic efforts of the men en-
deavouring to comer the fish with spikes and
brooms. It takes an expert in this kind of fish-
ing to land a prize successfully, but on this oc-
casion about half-a-dozen large fish were caught
Quantities of oysters were also gathered by
some of the men from the bottom of the vessel
docked.

AKMY ANT> yA v Y-	Cheap Prepaid Advertisements
(From our Correspondent).
London, Jane 23.
My readers will regret to learn of the
death of Colonel E. H. Borney, C.B., who ,
retired a few months ago from the command
of the 2nd Battalion Royal Berkshire Regi-
ment, at Alexandria. Colonel Burney,. who
was in his 44th year, was visitiDg Paris
when hes contracted his fatal illness. He saw
service with the Royal Berks in the Egyptian
War of 1882, and commanded the 2nd batta-
lion in the late South African War.

Lieutenant B. G. Bromhead, Royal Berks
Regiment, has been ordered to embark for
Egypt on the 14th prox. to join the 2nd Bat-
talion, on absorption. He recently returned
home from the Cape, where he did duty for
three years with the South ^African Consta-
bulary.	-

Major H. B. Mainwaring, Lincolnshire Regi-
ment, has left the 1st Battalion at Se-
ounderabad, and taken his retired pay, after
a little over 27 years’ service. Major Main-
waring got his first commission in February,
1878, ways promoted captain in 1884, and
major in. 1896. He was in Kitchener’s expedi-
tion to Khartoum and was present at the
battles of Atbara and Omdurman (mentioned
in despatches, 4th class Osmanieh, British
medal, and Khedive’s medal with two clasps).

The Rifle Depot at Winchester is to be
maintained at its present establishment
Curiously, whilst other regiments have a
difficulty in getting recruits the "Green-
jaokets” have none.

It has been deoided, says a contemporary,
to discontinue the carrying of the revolver in
civilised warfare. In the South African war
the drivers of the R.H.A., and the R.H.A. dri-
vers of transport, staff sergeants, farriers, and
others were served ont with Webley revolvers.
These were only carried for a short period,
when they were relegated to the kit bag.
Offioers who served in that campaign say that
however nsetnl the six-shooter is in savage
warfare—and it is a very good weapon for rongh
and tumble fighting—it is useless for oivilised
warfare where fighting is carried on at long
range. It. is now proposed to replace the
revolver by a light carbine. Farriers are still to
carry the Webley for shooting horses.

BUTTER-SCOTCH
(The Celebrated Sweet for Children).
nila popular Kogliah Bwwtmeut cun be obtain*! «t<	)
Mr. OABONIS, AvMOUaiuquv Stobm, Fert-SuV.
„ niMNTBUDSS,	„
Hum. TUTORED BONNIOI * Oo.,	,,
Thi PATISSERIE PE Df BOURSE, But Cbtrif Paafe^
Vurafiwtory i London, XogUnd.

SOME ERRORS OF ARTISTS.
In an interesting article on “Artistic In-
congruities and Anachronisms, ”m “Chambers’s
Journal," references made to a pictaure,painted
about the eighteenth century, in which Abra-
ham appears ready to sacrifice Isaac with a
loaded blunderbuss. This antedated the use of
firearms by more than three thousand years.
Pictures are knoWn of the Israelites crossing
the Red Sea armed with muskets and other
weapons of offence of comparatively modern
date.	'
it is in the matter of costume that the early
painters found such a stumbling block. In the
Edinburgh National Gallery is a picture in
which Pharaoh’s daughter and her ladies are
arrayed in the long-waisted bodices and hooped
skirts common to' Europe in the sixteenth
centnry. In another picture of the same date,
representing “Joseph and his Kindred in
Egypt,” which is hung in the National Collec-
tion in London, there is no trace of the
distinctive feature of Egyptian architecture
about the buildings ; they are all Italian in
type. Note, again, another picture by Paolo
Veronese in the same gallery, “The Family of
Darius at the feet of Alexander after the
Battle of l88us.” Again we have these pointed
waists and enormously distended skirts, which
are certainly incompatible with an event which
occurred- in the year 333 B.C. The artist was a
Venetian, and he drew the Venetian costumes
of his own period, 1528^88.	V
Raphael, like so many others, drew his
Madonnas, his saints, and his martyrs from
Italian models, and clothed them in contempo-
rary Italian costume, giving the figures as a
background the scenery with which he was so
familiar. It was only when travellers came to
visit the Holy Land, and saw the people there,
unchanged in sentiment, habit, and customs
for centuries, that a few came to realise that
the pictures were wrong.

A MODERN SACRIFICE TO ANCIENT
GODS.	7
l
It has been calculated, according to “Engi-
neering,” that a storage capacity of two mil-
liards of cubic metres, or two thousand million
tons, is required to convert each million acres
of the land of Egypt from flood to perennial
irrigation. Hence the problem is, to supply
reservoirs capable of storing four milliards of
cubic metres of water. The Assouan reservoir
at its present level stores one milliard of
cubic metres, leaving three milliards yet to
fie retained, if it bad not been for the senti-
mental outcry of certain European archaeolo-
gists, to whom the preservation of a rained
temple, which most of them had never seen,
was of more interest than the welfare of
millions of their fellow-creatures, the Assouan
reservoir wocld now be of twice its capacity,
and another half-million acres rendered able
(a produce the long-stapled Egyptian cotton
which is so greatly in demand, As “Engineering”
expresses it, fellaheen cried to the Govern-
ment for bread, and it has given them stones,
in deference to the wishes of a few foreign
antiquaries. However, the fault is now om-
mitted; Egypt is poorer by 14,000,000*, bat
retains a unless pile of half-submerged ruins.

Under this heading advertisements are in
sorted at the following rates :—
ONCE 3 TIMES 6 TUV
15 words . . . P.T.	5	P.T.	10	P.T.	16
80 words ...	„	8	„	16	„	24
Every 10 words, V « a *
beyond 80. . . / ”	*	”	*	f	e
All such advertisements most be prepaid, and
to this rule no exception whatever will
be made. Letters in reply to advertise-
ments will be posted to any address if a
few stamps are sent by the advertiser to
cover portage.

AGARDS INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES
AND TRADE MARKS REGISTER. -
A useful business directory containing addreeses
of [all important business firms of Great Britain
the Continent, and Egypt. Circulating all over
Europe and America. Price—One pound Sterling.
Poet Free.
AGARDS	INTERNATIONAL HOTEL
GUIDE sent poet free to all first class Hotels
throughout Europe, America, the (Monies end
Egypt. The beet reference book for travellers.

ADVERTISING AGENTS.—The best public
a Advertising sites in Alexandria belong to
G. Vestri A Co., Advti Agents, St Catherine’s
Sqnare. Special rates for permanent clients.
Moderate terms. Prompt despatch.
26642-81-12-905

ARABIC LESSONS given by an Egyptian
A tutor to Europeans. Apply M. Shefik,
“Egyptian Gazette’^ offices.	25888-
25888-

APPLY for French, Italian, Arabio, German,
ax. to the Berlitz Schools, Alexandria (26,
Rue de l'Eglise Copte) ; Cairo Sharia Kamel),
Most rapid method Trial lesson free. Evening
classes at Alexandria, P.T. 60 per month.
23069-30-9A-905

AMERICAN MANUFACTURER’S Agency
ax- wishes to advise having received a fresh
consignment of Roll-top Desks, Morris Chairs,
Sewing Machines, Refrigerators, Typewriters and
various other American goods. No. 7 Rue de
l’Ancienne Bourse.	25878-2-5 906

DLICK TYPEWRITERS, No. 5 £9, No. 7
xJ £11. W.T. Emmens, 99 Rue Attarine,
Alexandria, Address, Post Office Box 35.
30-6-905A

CHIEF ACCOUNTANT first-rate Cairo firm
'-J wants occupation after office hours. Apply
to this paper, XV. 348.	26185-3-1

ENGLISH MASTER desires post i
xa daring summer holidays. Apply,
gonr, English school, Cyprus. 261

LANCASTER HOUSE, Sharia Wabour-el-
Moyah, Cairo. Comfortable apartments,
with or without board. Terms very reasonable.
	2559915a 6-905

MOUNTAIN CAMP, for boys during sum-
mer holidays. Apply, Peroival Mayall,
B.A., Headmaster, English Sohool, Cyprus.
,	25921-48 45

TO LET, famished, at Ibrahimieh (Ramleh),
splendid villa; 10rooms (6 bedrooms),
drawing-room, etc.; large umbraged garden
3,000 piks ; electric light, etc., etc. Apply to
Mr. Have, Villa dee Roses, Ibrahimien, near
Doctor Cognard, or to the post-office.
26147-15-9

TO LET, at Ibrahimieh (Ramleh), Famished
-I- Flat; 5 rooms ; private entrance and
roof. Near sea, tramway station, and Sporting
Club. Apply, Capt. Gordon, Ibrahimieh, or
Mr. Cumming, Turf Club, Cairo. 26166-6-6

TO LET, near Sporting Station, self-contained
furnished House; 5 rooms; bracing position;
July to September. Apply, No. 26,178, “Egyp-
tian Gazette” offices.	#6178-6-3

WANTED SITUATION. - Chief-account
U ant, cashier, corresponding lingnist ;
bank ; English testimonials ; long practice.
Apply No. 26,151, “Egyptian Gazette/’
261766,3


DAVIES
& Co.
Continental Hotel Buildings
CAIRO,
St. David's Buildings,
and 35 - 37 Noble Street
LONDON, E.O.
English Tailors,
Drapers
and Outfitters.
TRAVELLING REOU/S/TIES:
COMPRESSED CANE TRUCKS.
SOLID liKATHEB OVERLAND
_ TRUNKS. *
GLADSTONE & KIT BAGS.
SUIT -OASES, JIUGS, *o.
ATHLETIC GOODS:
A VARIED STOCK, INOLUDltftf
Slazenger’s Doherty
“E.G-.M.” Demon.
AND
Ayre’s Central
Strung* Racquet8.
TENNIS BALLS
FRESH SUPPLY WEEKLY.
BOOTS & SHOES.
* All the newest shapes in the best
English makes:—
BUCKSKIN TINNIS BOOT AT il
A SPECIALITY.
Owing to the increased business
in this Department A new Show*
room has been fitted up where better
attention can be given to Customers.
CLOTHS:
The largest Stock in Egypt of
Cloths of the best British Mann,
facture :
TROPICAL TWEEDS,
FLANNELS, DRILLS,
&c., &o.
All garments cut by experienced
English cutters. Fit and style. gua->
ran teed.
GENTS’ OUTFIlYlNG:
The newest Shades in
Crepe de Chene Ties.
Cellular, Oxford, Zephyr
Shirts aud Pyjamas in great
variety.
SDecial Attention paid to Shirts
Made to Measure.
HOSIERY AND UNDERCLOTHING
IN TEN BSST MAKER.
PANAMA, STRAW, & FELT HATS
CORK & PITH HELMETS. ;*
CAPS.
HOUSEHOLD LINEN AT SPECIALLY
CHEAP PRICES.
TABLE CLOTHS, NAPKINS, SHEETS,
AND PILLOW CASES.
FLANNELETTES, VIYELLA8 AND
CEYLON FLANNELS.
SOAP, PERFUMERY,
RUBBER SPONGES, BRUSHES,
STUDS, MIRRORS (hand A bbavow)
■ FOUNTAIN PENS, Ae., *«.
Davies Biyan & Co.,
Cairo A Alexandria,
